 Okay, thank you. This is a meeting of the RM of Springfield for July 16th of 2024 at exactly 6pm, calling the meeting to order. We will, I'll do introduction here, I'm Mayor Patrick Tarrion for the RM of Springfield. We have Christy Gronhide at the assistant CEO's at the controls. Our CEO calling Draper is present. Deputy Mayor to my right in the descending order and Councilor Ward 1 is Glenn Fuel. Councilor Ward 2 is Andy Kozinski. Councilor Ward 3 is Mark Miller. Councilor Ward 4 is Melinda Warren. Melinda, if you want to do invocation. May we all enter into the meeting with open ears and open minds, sharing our knowledge and experience while working together for the betterment of our municipality. Thank you very much. Then I'll do the land acknowledgement. The RM of Springfield acknowledges that we are gathered on ancestral lands, Treaty 1 territory, traditional territory, the Anishinaabe, Cree, Ojibwe, Cree, Dakota, Dene people on the national homeland and on the national homeland of the Red River Métis. That is item number 3 and item number 4 is approval of the agenda. Can I get a mover and a seconder for that please? Melinda and Glenn, any questions, additions or modifications to the agenda? Mark. Close meeting. Okay. Anything else? I see none. Then can I get a show of hands of those in support of the approval of the agenda? Anonymous and is carried. Mover and a seconder for the adoption of the minutes, Patrick and Andy. Any questions, additions from council on adoption of the minutes for July 2nd? I see none. Show of hands. Those in support? That is carried. We have a question period. Nobody's in front of us here. We have 15 minutes allocated. The only question pertaining to the current agenda online. I see nobody online as well. So at this point here, we'll carry on to consent agenda. Item number 10. Oh, sorry. Tammy, did you have anything for a question period at all? I just saw you come again. Okay. Then what we'll do, we'll get to a consent agenda. That's item number 10. I have comments for 10.2 and 10.3. So I'm not sure we can actually do the consent agenda there. So if I can do the first one, 10.1, the AMM news bulletin. Can a mover and a seconder for that, please? Mark and Glenn. Is there any questions with regards to that from council? I see none. I can get a show of hands of those in support. Unanimous and is carried. The next one is 10.2. That's STARS. Can I get a mover and a seconder for that? Mark and Glenn. I had a comment here. I am a big proponent for STARS. This is a vital component for our healthcare. I've had firsthand experience with STARS in Manitoba Air Ambulances in the north. Many communities in the north rely on air ambulance provided by the government either via airport, helicopter, and air propeller or jet. When there's babies involved and adults alike, this is an extremely good tool for the health department and has been utilized in the arm of Springfield. And that's all I had to say with regards to that. Can I get a mover or a show of hands of those in support of STARS? That is unanimous and is carried. Then if we can get to the thank you card, the SCI grad recipients, a mover and a seconder for 10.3, please. Melinda and Andy. At this point here, we have the card from Layla Plant there. We increased the amount to $750 from 500, which I think was an exceptional idea from our Deputy Mayor to increase that because most of the honorary bursaries and so on are at that $750 level. I'm not saying that we have to match costs there, but it was really well received. The SCI staff, Principal Kevin Dell, extremely large crowd present as every year. And their families at the Club Region Casino, which is an impressive facility, but still not in our community. So it'll be nice to have the grad eventually be here at our new recreational facility, which requires our new water treatment plant to be able to operate and provide our community going forward. So appreciate the card from Layla. It was very well done. Any other questions or comments from Council at all? I see none. Can I get a show of hands of those in support of 10.3 thank you card? It's unanimous and is carried. We'll get to a new business there, and that's the purchase of the asphalt pot box trailer, a mover and a seconder for that, please. Linda and Andy, any questions from Council with regards to this? You have your hand up Andy? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I would like to ask if we purchasing ourselves or we using that company that helping purchase equipment through AMM? Or Canoe? Yeah. Do they can help us with purchasing equipment? We never use them like purchasing the trucks or our fire department chassis and police car. I believe the Director of Public Works is online, but I honestly don't think that the Industrial Machine Inc. is part of that Canoe procurement. They have to be a listed supplier. So maybe Blaine, if you're able to confirm if that's an opportunity to purchase equipment through Canoe procurement or not? Yeah, we did look into seeing if that was a listed company and I don't believe they were. So I'm not 100% sure if there is any advantages for the municipality for Canoe in this equipment purchase. So. Thank you. Any other questions from Council at all? I see none. Then I can read the resolution. It was all the Council of the Arm of Springfield approves the purchase of one new asphalt hotbox trailer from Industrial Machine Inc. not to exceed the budgeted amount of $155,000 including taxes with funds coming from the vehicle and equipment reserve. I got to show hands first in support of purchase of asphalt hotbox trailer. That's Melinda. That's unanimous and it is carried. Then we'll get to 11.2 the purchase of a rehab trailer or specifically a rehabilitation trailer for the Priory Department. Mover and a seconder for that please. Patrick and Glenn. The result of the Council of the Arm of Springfield approves the purchase of one new rehabilitation trailer from ProPak for $59,630.27 US plus applicable taxes, transport fees and broker fees with funds to come from the vehicle and equipment reserve. Are we able to amend the resolution to show Canadian funds beside it there? I think it's $80,000. It's $59,637.20 US. When we write the check, we have to get the exact US amount on that day of the check writing. So that will change. It could change from what's being proposed right now, Canadian. Okay. All right. I understand that. Can I get to show any questions from Council with regards to that? I see none. Can I get to show hands those in support of the purchase of a rehabilitation trailer? That is unanimous and it is carried. 11.3, that's financial statements. Move around to secondary, please. Melinda and Mark. I had one question with regards to financial statements. It says here basically with regards to notes to financial statements May 31, 2024, the tax levying grants and lieu have been collected, which accounts for our deficit. Can we have some clarification on this? So there's no misinformation with regards to that. So we're still waiting for the tax levy and the grants to come through. Are they delayed for any reasons? Okay. So this is routine then it's not different this year. Okay. Any other questions from Council at all? I see none. Then can I get a show hands of financial statements? Those in support. That is unanimous and it is carried. 11.4 list of accounts. A mover and a seconder for that, please. That's a Melinda and Glenn. Whereas disbursements have been reviewed for the period of time, I'm not sure if that's the case. Okay. Whereas disbursements have been reviewed for the period of June 7th to July 5th, 2024, be it resolved that all accounts listed on the attached printout from check one six zero four four two. To one six zero seven two one totaling 2,088,000. One 2756 be approved for payment as well as the following EFT entries. Western financial 15,000. The EFT. Superpass. One. Seven. Seven. 59. John Deere. 8,000. 4,480. 91. 6,000. 5,760. 83. 6,000. 5,760. 83. And 4,000. 5,440. 29. RBC visa. 17,000. 730. 69. Manitoba hydro. 30,000. 390. 380.uição of Any other questions from council? I see none. Can I get a show of hands those in support of list of accounts under 11.4? That is unanimous and is carried. If we can get to 11.5, that's a non-profit tax cancellation, Centre Eyes Performing Arts, Centre of Excellence, or space. A mover and a seconder for that, please. Patrick and Melinda. We resolve the Council of the Arm of Springfield to approve a non-profit organization grant for Springfield Performing Arts Centre of Excellence in the amount of $7,909.19. I have a question about that. The taxes are $69.57 plus the arrears. That would take us to a ballpark of $7,100, but we're looking at $7,900 for that. I'm not sure what the math is there. The tax bill that Council is seeing a copy of, those arrears are not to date. That was when the original bill was printed in July of 2023. Oh, I see. The $140 is still outstanding. That's the $140? Yes. There's monthly penalties that have been accruing since that time. That's where the $79 is from? Yes. Any questions from Council with regards to that? Yes, I would like to ask if they're always paying penalties, they never come up with that, or this is just the first time? Yeah, so they were kind of in a strange situation where they were also renting additional space in the mall and owned this property as well. So they had come to Council for cancellation of the property taxes at that time. Council didn't agree with the cancellation because the activities weren't taking place in the building on Main Street. Now that they've gotten rid of their space in the mall, moved back to that building, they've come back to Council and now it's Council's opportunity to approve or deny again. I know, but that's not what I ask. I ask if they're always on arrears? No, they're not always on arrears. This is the first time. Thank you. Yeah, and as Council, we've had discussions about this in camera and out of camera there. But it's to the point, there would be no further assistance in my opinion. I got one vote there, but I think hopefully this helps there, but we have to take that into consideration there. Any other comments from Council? I see none. Can I get a show of hands of those in support of the nonprofit taxation cancellation space? Unanimous and it is carried. We'll get to 11.6 letter of support for John Q. Bilt for a collaborative efficiency advocate position. Can I get a mover and a seconder with regards to that please? Melinda and Glenn. Any questions from Council with regards to letter of support? Andy? Mr. Mayor, I want to ask like, they suggested that we use this efficiency Manitoba. We can go directly ourselves to efficiency Manitoba. We don't have to go through John Q. No, but this is John Q asking that they're going to go align with efficiency Manitoba. They've got a grant for $120,000 and the John Q will likely match that to a certain level. Yes, we could do that and so anybody can use efficiency Manitoba. But we're linking with efficiency Manitoba, a government entity there to get that special environmental incentive as well. They have a 5% MECD. I'm trying to remember what that acronym stands for, but the structure or John Q daycares are built better than the Manitoba environmental committee designations there. I believe that's what MECD stands for or something with regards to that. So efficiency Manitoba and John Q with their daycare program is better than what the government is looking for. And efficiency Manitoba will work with us to do even a better job and this is aligning directly with them for our John Q built and John Q daycare. So yeah, anybody can. You can, Ken, as a small business and so on use them. But John Q has been using them and now they're looking to have a direct contact with them to make the initiatives that much better. And just asking for support with regards to the green initiatives that efficiency Manitoba will give to them as well. Because we're part of that group of the Winnipeg metropolitan region there, they're throwing it out to surrounding areas of the city of Winnipeg. I understand, but we kind of questioned what John Q did for us over the years and they didn't do absolutely nothing till now. So we're paying the bill for them, like I don't know, $20,000 a year and what are we getting in return? Well, I don't know if it's a one-time payment, what I understand is $20,000 there. We're getting like daycare, that 39 acres of land that we bought there, which was a very prudent, good move on council's part there because that land is only going up in value, but we have no land for a daycare. This community needs a daycare as a high priority for allowing us to go forward there because the daycare is huge and just being a grandparent and with my sons and daughter-in-laws and my grandkids, it's a huge cost. And location, location, location is paramount. And if we have this daycare like they have in East Selkirk, Lorette, Headley in the city of Winnipeg, there's 20 plus these daycares around there. They're very efficient. There's actually a university, I know the name, but I'm not going to mention the name, that is doing a study with regards to our business initiative for that because it's a global project that's getting a lot of insight from other entities there and the energy efficiency coming from these buildings. The costs are streamlined and not to mention the environmental green initiative is top. So we are getting lots from this and John Q, we will approach them, I hope once we get everything ready, our water treatment plant up and running there to allow our community to go forward and daycare is something that this community needs. Nobody say that we don't need it, but not necessarily the land that we purchase is going to go there. We have land that we want to build our water treatment plant and we didn't pay, you know, absorb an amount of money for that land and we could have used that land for that purpose too. So it's not only just because we purchased the land, just fits the bill for that daycare center. We, nobody say that we don't need the daycare center, but you know, we have the land to pull the daycare center before that. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions from council? Then if I can get a vote or can I get the resolution? Be it resolved that the mayor be authorize to sign a letter of support for JQ Bilk for a collaborative advocate position on behalf of the RM Springfield. I got to show hands of those in support of a letter of support for John Q. That is a Melinda, Glenn and Patrick. Those opposed? Mark and Andy. And is hereby carried. Carried. 11.7, a Manitoba municipalities administrators review and revision. 11.7, a mover and a seconder for that please. Melinda and Patrick. Any questions from council with regards to that? If I can get the resolution read. Did you have a question Andy? Yes. Who structured this letter to us? Manitoba municipalities of administrators? Correct. Yep. And what can you tell us about this organization? Well, the MMA, so Manitoba municipal administrators is kind of my AMM to council. So it's the organization I belong to and I have to get my professional credits through to keep good standing with them. So it's this group that was asked to put their comments regarding the municipal board mandate role function and practices. So they put together a resolution and sent it out to all the members and asked that we bring it forward to council for review. And if you want to vote on the resolution and provide it, that's an option. So they stated in here, municipality and wasteful processes and their interaction municipal boards. So this have something to do with Bill 37 too? Oh, well, I think the province is doing a review of the Manitoba municipal board mandate. So they've reached out to certain groups to comment and they reached out to MMA to comment on this. Yeah, but this is kind of something to do with the Bill 37? Yeah, but this is kind of something to do with the Bill 37? I don't know specifically. I don't think it does, but I can confirm. But the municipal board follows falls under a different act. So this is specific to the municipal board. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions council? Have you read the resolution yet? No. Do we have to read it aloud or can we agree to that we read it? I'll just read the therefore be it resolved section. Therefore be it resolved that the be it resolved section. Therefore be it resolved that the AMM lobby the province of Manitoba to undertake a comprehensive review of the mandate role and function of the municipal board to evaluate its relevance and actual value in today's municipal sector. And further that the province of Manitoba complete a third party value for money service delivery review of the municipal board processes and undertake process improvements to streamline functions, reduce red tape and reduce municipal costs. And further that the province of Manitoba engage AMM and MM8 participate as key stakeholders in the preparation of terms of reference for these efforts and any steering or oversight body for this work. With the resolution read, can I get a show of hands of those in support of the Manitoba municipal administrators review and revision? That is unanimous and is carried. 11.8 council schedule. Can I get a mover and a seconder? Patrick and Melinda. Be it resolved that the following changes be approved to the council meeting schedule Tuesday October 8th. Committee of the whole cancelled. Any questions council? I see none. Andy? And why we counseling for what reason? Council just approved the planning session with council and staff on October 7th to 9th. Okay thank you. I got to show of hands of those in support to the council schedule 11.8. That's unanimous and sorry Andy do you have your hand up? Yeah that's unanimous and is carried. Then we're prepared to close the meeting for in camera there. Can I get a mover and a seconder for that please? Melinda and Patrick. Okay be it resolved that this meeting recessed to in camera to discuss legal issues and be it further resolved that all matters shall remain confidential until a report is made public. Okay thank you very much. It's 6.57 pm. We're coming out of a closed meeting. Can I get a mover and a seconder to come out of the closed meeting? Melinda and Andy. And we've got nothing more on the agenda. Everything was discussed in camera. If we can adjourn the meeting and move her in a seconder for that please. Melinda and Patrick. Then the meeting is adjourned at 6. Oh show of hands. Unanimous the meeting is adjourned at 6.57 pm. Thank you.